Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel, I lead Customer Marketing at Posit,
and I'm so excited to have you joining us today. If it's your first time joining us,
the Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different
industries, chat about data science leadership, and connect with others facing similar things as
you. And we get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place. If it is your first
Hangout, let us know in the chat because we would love to welcome you in for anybody joining the
first time. We are all dedicated to keeping this a friendly and welcoming space for everyone,
so we love to hear from you no matter your years of experience, titles, industry, or languages that
you work in. It's also totally okay if you just want to listen in here too. Maybe you're on your
lunch break or you're out walking your dog, but also awesome to be a part of the party that will
happen in the Zoom chat. So you may meet a few people there in the Zoom chat, see a lot of great
resources shared as well. But there's three ways that you can jump in and ask questions or provide
your own perspective on topics. So you can raise your hand on Zoom and I'll call on you to jump in.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little star next to it if it's something you
want me to read out loud. And then third, we have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously.
We do also, I sometimes forget to say this, but we do also have a LinkedIn group for the Hangout,
if anybody wants to join there. It's not great for discussions, but it's awesome for being able
to connect with everybody and more easily find each other. Quick note though, if you are watching
this as a recording on YouTube in the future and you want to join us live, the link to add it to
your calendar is going to be in the details below. And as always, there's no rule that you have to
stay on the whole time or talk, come and go as it fits your own schedule. But with that, I am so
excited to be joined by my co-host today, Brad Zelke, Senior Director of Data Sciences at Target.
And Brad, I'd love to have you kick us off here by introducing yourself and sharing a little bit
about your role and also something you like to do outside of work.
Perfect. Thanks, Rachel, for having me. Nice to virtually meet everybody. Really quick, so I'm a Senior Director of Data Science at Target.
I work in the operations space, so my team supports various decision modeling capabilities across everything from vendors
and our supply chain and transportation providers all the way through to what happens in our stores and also how we operate in our properties world.
So when we talk about properties, we talk about construction, we talk about energy optimization, work like that.
And so it's really fun space across Target because we actually touch everything that physically happens.
So I have a fairly large global team that really makes it all happen.
A little bit more about me, I've been with Target 20 years, so I have one job before Target and then I've been here ever since.
And I'll get into a little bit of this as we talk more, but I think the variety of work in data science and retail is just fascinating.
So across my 20 years, I've had opportunities to work in cybersecurity, work in supply chain, obviously stores.
I've been able to work with HR analytics and other things, and it's just a really neat place where you can kind of cross domains in the industry as well.
And then what I enjoy outside of work, so I have four kids. Four kids keeps me busy, but I love coaching sports and anything athletic and outdoor.
So I spend my time running. I'll run my sixth marathon this fall.
My sons are swimmers and hockey players, so my winters are packed either in a pool or on the ice.
And so that's what I enjoy doing outside of work.
I love it. That's awesome. I was going to ask what sport you coach. Is it hockey?
Hockey, yeah.
Well, thank you so much for joining us here today, and I get to start us off with some questions as we wait for them all to come in from everybody here.
But I was curious, Brad, being at Target for over 20 years,
could you share a bit about the evolution that you've seen of data science in the retail space?
Yeah, absolutely. So Target probably, I've been around a long time.
So I started at Target doing statistical modeling in distribution centers.
And what's fascinating is when I started, we only had 16 VCs in the country.
Right now, we have over 60.
And so you think about those localized models and solutions we were building.
I've been part of seeing that grow and rapidly expand, too.
At one point, we centralized that for the company, then we've extended it.
And then over the last 10 years, this is really my third stint in and outside of data sciences at Target.
So at one point, BI and data analytics were all part of data sciences.
And as we brought that together, we decided to build data products for Target.
We started to formalize measurements and metrics across the organization.
And then data sciences really grew rapidly.
And so we talked a lot more about decision models.
So anything from recommendation systems to search to optimization and algorithm
development that we do in operations today.
And so I've seen this huge transformation into being very supportive and augmented
to the organization, to becoming more and more data science-led and forward,
especially in these spaces where I think traditionally it would have been just
statistical models or more of our objective decisioning and now becoming a lot more
augmented in terms of leading the organization and new capabilities as well.
So it's been a really fun journey that we continue to build on.
Gen AI, obviously, is all the buzz right now.
And we're dabbling in that.
And it's just fun to see what else is possible.
Absolutely.
And a quick follow-up question from your intro, which marathon are you running next?
I'm running Twin Cities Marathon for the fifth time.
And then I'm looking at doing Grandma's now that our winter has been so warm.
We've been able to get outside and get some more miles in earlier in the season.
So I might run two this year.
Nice.
So just so everybody knows here, when we say data science and operations,
could you share just an example of maybe a use case that you're working on now or
what that really means?
Yeah.
So as I alluded to, our teams work across all different parts of our operations,
from supply chain to stores to properties.
We work heavily in the optimization, OR, operations research space.
So we build simulations or digital twins of what we're doing across our different businesses.
We do a lot of forecasting work where we're helping outline what networks should expect
or how things will be moving or how to staff a store.
And so our team works across all of these different operational teams
or trying to execute work in the field.
And so right now, I think one of the things I'm most excited about in our space
is how we're using the horizontal capabilities of simulation optimization
to look at the inputs and outputs as we derive a network.
As we derive a network of capabilities from what we buy and how we move it
all the way to how that will end up in a target building.
And so we can start to look at what we're doing internationally,
how that lands domestically in our ports or our decons,
and how that ends up moving into our stores ultimately.
And so we have models and algorithms that are starting to outline and connect
different decision variables that happen upstream
into those decisions that we're making downstream as well.
So when you go into a target,
are you thinking about all those things as you're shopping?
Yes, absolutely.
Often I'm either annoyed where we don't have something that I want
because that means something else happened wrong upstream
or I'm overzealous about something that looks great
because all the work that ended up making that reality.
Something I meant to add in the beginning,
I wanted to just remind everybody,
if anyone's hiring for roles,
feel free to share that in the chat as well.
I know there's some people who are looking that are joining as well.
So it's not spammy at all to share those roles in the chat too.
But I guess, Brad, I'll ask you as well.
Are you currently hiring for any roles at Target?
Yeah, we're always hiring.
So I'll make a plug where we're building out some new search teams.
We're looking at work and our recommendation systems
and personalization capabilities.
And then even across MySpace
and kind of the operations side of the team,
where we're always looking for talent to augment
and build out some of our teams here locally in Minneapolis
and then also in our Sunnyvale office.
And some people maybe don't know this,
but Target does offer remote and hybrid work too
where we have teams that travel in and out across the country.
So feel free to reach out to me afterwards if you're interested.
Awesome. Is LinkedIn the best place to connect with you?
Yeah, that's a great way to reach out.
Okay, perfect.
Curtis, I see you have a question here in the chat
or maybe you're starting a conversation here in the chat.
Do you want to jump in and ask that?
Anytime someone mentions Target and data science,
the anecdotal story about how,
I think it was the marketing data science team had...
Of course.
I just wanted...
Basically, anytime anyone from Target shows up,
I always ask them to confirm the story.
So maybe if you wouldn't mind kind of recapping it and sharing.
There's a few people who signed in their classes.
Oh my gosh, it's like the atypical academic case study, right?
Of like machine learning and machine learning
of like machine learning and data science gone wrong.
So those of you guys who maybe haven't seen the article,
obviously, or maybe you have and you just want to refresh here.
But Target started sending recommendations ads to a family.
And the father found out through some of those ads and details
that his daughter was pregnant,
which then turned out that Target knew more about the situation
and what was being purchased based on that behavior
that provided us details and insights of how to use that
and offer other incentives,
which could be pretty intrusive.
But I think it was also very interesting
and highlighted the power of data.
Now, how Target handled that and all of that,
we, I think, had to disclose some more information,
I think led to other processes and good governance
that we're working through.
But it's a great case study, a good example of the power of it,
but also how to be a good steward of data science as well.
That's the one you're alluding to, right, Curtis?
Exactly, yeah.
That's a very true story that I remember very dearly.
It must be hard when something is used as a case study
in a lot of classes,
but then becomes something that is always asked about too.
Yes.
But there's so much more to data science than that, right?
I think that was obviously something that made the news,
but tons of good things with it as well.
I see, Rick, you just put a question in the chat.
You want to jump in here?
Oh, hi, Brett.
Thank you very much.
Rick Hubbard here.
I'm a retired practitioner and a university professor,
but I'm very intrigued by your remarks.
The question I have is your DS function
sounds to be quite sophisticated, quite capable.
Sounds like you have a breadth and a depth of competencies.
I'm wondering to what degree do your business customers,
the other lines of business that you interact with,
to what degree do they understand DS
and the work products your team produces,
methods and practices you undertake?
And in addition to that,
what accounts for the business side's degree of acumen
in understanding who you guys are
and what you do and how you do it?
Yeah, I'll start with the first question.
Our customers don't always understand what we're doing.
But I think what I emphasize with my team
and some of my teams on this call
is we have a deep empathy for our customers,
our partners, and the decisions they're making.
And that's always our starting point.
I think that gives us a way to interact,
teach, educate, and bring them into
and along with the solutions we might share with them.
I'll give you an example though.
So I just took my whole leadership team
out to our office in California.
And then we all went and did an immersion experience
where we went and actually walked physical buildings.
We met with team members on the DC floors.
We met with store service team members.
And really we're highlighting and showing
where our work intersected
with what they see and do every day.
And that hands-on connection allowed us to get feedback
in terms of what they see from our work.
Also allowed us to build, I think, a deeper understanding
of why we see disconnects often from our work.
And then just enabled us to even further educate
people in the field who maybe are like,
why is this happening?
Some of the nuances of what we're doing in our models
that end up leading to that.
And so we end up augmenting our stores
with different decisioning models
that change the tasks or the work that they have.
And when that changes, we can tend to see questions
of like, what is driving this?
This doesn't seem normal.
And so then we can kind of loop back with them
and have more of a high touch education
or connection with them as well,
which I think goes a super long way.
And so we spend, I think, as a leadership team,
the majority of our job actually engaging,
educating, and partnering with them to teach,
train, and then drive kind of the focus on this work
versus delivering it.
And then we have really, really talented teams
who end up building it, interacting with them
as we deploy it and trying to capture
as much feedback as we can.
So we have a lot of success criteria
in the operations space specifically,
where we not only just deploy
and then test and learn virtually,
but we actually go and audit
and look at our physical impacts as well,
which I think is really, really unique.
Brad, one of the reasons I'm asking is years ago,
to show you how old I am,
but you can tell from my white hair,
I helped implement what was called
a information center.
It was considered to be revolutionary.
My gosh, how old is that?
But one of the things we did that I,
so we implemented this information center
and it was in largely a financial institution,
broadly just geographically distributed
financial institution,
and early results were desultory.
So I thought over and said, what's going on here?
And I realized, I went out and talked
to some of our prospective business customers,
partners that we would support
in the operation side.
They didn't know how to engage with us.
They knew we existed.
They knew we could answer certain problems
and gather data and do forecasts
and all that jazz,
but they didn't actually know how to engage with us.
So I did a little,
we put together a little course.
I had my folks put together a little course
on kind of, I don't remember the title of it,
but it was sort of like,
this is how to use an information center.
And our utilization grew exponentially
once folks knew how to ask us to ask a question,
if that makes sense.
To what degree do you have in your outreach program
to the various lines of business,
operations, marketing, HR,
all the functions that you mentioned a moment ago,
anything like that,
you know, to help them use you better.
That's my, that was my objective.
I wanted to help my customers use us better.
And to do that, one of the things I had to do
is to give them a tool so they knew how to help,
how to come to us.
Your thoughts?
No, I have a lot of thoughts on that.
The thing I get excited about that, right,
is that direct connection you pursued in doing that.
I think that unlocks a lot if you can train
and teach and create the patterns
that actually work for them versus,
you know, feed them what we think will work for them.
I'd say on our side,
there's two things that stick out in our model
that maybe are a little unique.
One, we treat all of our models and science as products.
So just as you would an application
and treating it as a product
and how what that user experience looks like
and how you would build a roadmap around features
and value and all of that,
we do the same thing with our models.
We want our users to have, you know,
some product accountability in terms of like,
what is their experience?
What's the outcomes?
How do we measure that?
What does that look like?
What's the efficacy of a model
or what are we doing with it?
And I think that that allows us
to also give them more support
as they engage with it and understand it
and also helps our scientists build a bridge
into like, hey, I want to go see this thing
or let me go interview this user
or make a direct connection.
You have it both ways.
So I think one, having kind of product mindset
and product connections
and governing and managing this stuff
takes more ownership in both of the outcomes
as well as what you're building.
So that's one.
I'd say the other thing that we spend a lot of time on
is that training.
And so when we do the model,
we spend a lot of time in training
what the changes will look like in their systems
or in the output of this.
On my screen is Alfredo.
He's on the team, but he's many times,
I'm sure educated our stores partners on like,
hey, this model will change what you see here.
We will deliver not just the output of the model,
but the reports and the views
and how they compare it
and use it to all their other processes.
And that's the way we can get
through change management and adoption
a lot easier than we have in the past
where it's like, just give them the report
and let them self-serve.
I'd say it's much more high touch
in making sure that they understand it
and see those components come together.
Oh, commendations, Fred.
Sounds like you guys have a really good handle on it.
The one thing I really liked
from your remark or really stood out.
I just want to make sure I jumped
to some of the other.
Yeah, it was the feedback loop.
So commendations and thank you, Rachel.
I yield the floor.
No, thank you for the great questions.
I just want to make sure I get to some here.
But I really do love hearing
about the immersion experience.
And I remember when we were talking before,
it was when you were planning
that trip out to California.
I see Alan had a follow-up question on that.
Alan, you want to jump in?
Yeah, thanks.
Hi, Brad.
I'm really, really interested.
I'm curious about how you sort of assess
things like physical impact.
You referred to that.
Like, it sounds like, you know,
seeing behavior changes in stores
or in customers or maybe in employees.
Really curious about how you measure that.
It seems like a really interesting
measurement question.
And also, it seems like fieldwork,
which seems really fascinating
to do in that environment.
So I wonder if there's anything
you can sort of elaborate on there
about how you turn physical impact
into data that you can then
continue to work with.
Yes, so the feedback loop
we often look at, right,
as a combination of all the virtual records
and events and the features
that we train our model on
and then score and then end up
giving us output.
But we also look at, like,
what are the business outcomes
and measurements that
subsequently follow?
We want to have effects and outcomes.
And that's how it turns
into the value for Target.
And so an example I'll talk about
a little bit I can share.
It's actually published
in our Target blog, tech blog,
if you want to go look at it.
But we do something called
inventory corrections in our stores.
And so we use models
that help us predict when something
virtually is not there,
even though physically
we think it is there.
And as we look at those events
in our stores,
what we can see is different things
subsequently happen.
So we'll take a virtual record,
we'll correct it.
And then often tasks and workload
are generated from that.
And so then we'll see,
did the team members
go get the thing from the back room?
Or did they find it?
Or did subsequent other decisions
in our systems change
that then maybe brought
that item to the store?
And so we look at these
physical connections
and what that workload is,
what the effects are.
Sometimes we make mistakes.
And so we'll recommend
something that's not there
that actually is there.
And then the team member will go
actually do something with it.
And then it doesn't fit on the floor,
which then means
they have rework to do.
And that's a cost to target.
And it's a really frustrating experience
for the store team member.
And so looking at not just the,
you know, the precision of the model
and the output
and what value we're driving from that,
but then the subsequent impacts of that
has allowed us to connect back
and also build trust
because we care more
about the whole business problem
than just even making,
you know, those nuanced decisions
better across the whole value stream.
So that's a real example.
Just to give you, you know,
some scale on that,
you know, we do that hundreds
of millions of times a week,
which, you know, every team member
then has to touch
those subsequent impacts.
And it's fascinating
to see this interaction
and the costs and the interplay
between the physical
and virtual worlds.
That's the really, really
like that at scale
it's really interesting
and impressive.
Thank you.
Thanks.
I see there's a few questions
that came in about
like sharing results
and reports with users.
I don't know if Jeb,
you want to,
oh, I see a star here
so I can read it.
But the question was,
how do you sell bad news?
We make data products
with sound bases
and sometimes it surfaces issues
that might indicate an issue
or concern more often
than I want to admit.
There's pushback on the model
rather than a look at the issue.
A real life example of that
is highlighted often in simulation.
So we'll use and work
across business teams.
And recently,
some of you guys probably know
Target rolled out Starbucks
as part of your drive up order.
If you shop at Target,
it's an amazing benefit
because you can get
your Starbucks in your car
while you're also waiting
for your groceries
or anything else.
I'm a big fan.
But as we were looking at
and modeling out,
actually simulating that for stores
and the work there,
what we found is the data
told a different story
than what our subject matter experts
at headquarters expected to happen
when team members or payroll
was being used in stores.
And I, you know,
that wasn't a great story
to be like, sorry,
I know your process
is defined this way
and you expect all of this
to happen in this way,
but you're wrong.
But I think the reality
is we met them there.
We showed them the physical.
We actually met with them in stores.
We walked through the virtual records,
the physical actions and activities.
We saw these things
changing and evolving.
And what happened
is we drew alignment
between the physical
and the virtual
and highlighted those,
I'd say perceptions
that were incorrect
and allowed data to kind of work
and tell the story.
And so, yes, it was bad news.
But I think at the end,
because we were all aligned
and doing that work together,
we were able to deliver it
with some empathy and connection,
which ultimately led to us
advancing the overall solution
and simulation for our stores,
which helped them
transform other decisions.
And so they saw it
not just as a serving bad news,
but being a partner
and then unlocking other capabilities
that advanced it further.
That's a real example.
Thank you.
I am thinking,
like, as we're talking about
watching people in the physical stores,
like, how does that translate
over to the website to
or like knowing the process
people are going through
to find things?
Yeah, we, I think,
have a great desire
to be more sophisticated
of blending,
like our digital experience
with everything else
in the physical operations.
If you have read in the news
the last couple of quarters,
our digital sales and things
have taken a little bit of a hit.
I'd say overall, though,
Target's been well-positioned
to try to be a great place
to shop and meet our guests
with the demands they have.
We've, you know,
through the pandemic,
opened up drive up,
pick up and all their services.
But that doesn't always fit
within the same guest experience
as you have if you were
just to shop one of our stores.
You always can see the buzz
of somebody having a lot of fun
at a Target store.
But we don't often get
the same experience digitally.
And so it's a huge effort for us
to start to sync up on these things,
you know, make search better,
make recommendations clearer,
you know, compete on some
of those digital experience things
that, you know,
you can browse and shop
in a store that Target's known for
that we haven't completely
been able to do.
But I think we're on that journey.
And, you know,
our services and operations
in the space that I know,
we are truly trying to sync that up
as much as possible
to make that as easy as possible.
So the dynamics of you shopping
with ease and checkout with ease
should be as easily as you are
as easy as your store
walking through a checkout line
as it can be digitally.
And I think those are just nuances
of try to try to blend
those two experiences together.
Thank you.
I see a few people commenting
in the chat that used to work at Target
and love hearing those
behind the scenes here too.
Abigail, I see you had a question.
Want to jump in next?
Hi.
So increasingly, as I get to be
like an old person,
people send me their resumes
and they ask me for advice
and I give them advice,
but it's hard for me to tell
how much of my advice
is completely idiosyncratic.
So like, yeah,
like when you're looking
for junior people,
like what do you look for?
What do you assess?
What are your metrics?
Whatever.
Yeah, I'd say the biggest thing,
regardless of what's on the resume
or experience is just the curiosity
and willingness to go experiment
and do new things.
This space has changed so much
and it's going to continue
to change so rapidly.
Their willingness to learn,
to dive in with curiosity,
build and connect and work with peers.
The one thing I really,
that's kept me at Target
as long as it has,
is the diversity of talent around me.
And so I think their ability
to be curious
and then reach out to people
and work with others
and pull in diverse perspectives.
Those are the things I'm often
asking about in interviews.
That differentiates somebody
from what's just on their resume.
And so I think that type of,
however you can show that
in terms of your experience
or the projects you work on
or the type of products,
models, things you're building,
I think that just goes such a long way.
Because rarely are you
just doing it yourself
and rarely are you the one
who's done the initial research,
algorithm development
or model development
that was published originally.
At least I don't see that at Target.
I mean, I'm sure some of the bigger
tech organizations,
you know, transforming the world.
But I think there's a lot of
just how do you, you know,
do more of the applied side
and work with teams
and dive in to solve real problems.
Thank you.
Adam, I see you had a question
earlier on model governance.
Want to ask that now?
Yeah, just going back
to the earlier conversation
about that one anecdote
that shall not be named.
I'm curious about,
you kind of mentioned like,
well, you know,
we didn't really have good
model governance practices and things.
I'm curious sort of like
what the evolution of that
has looked like
if you're able to share
how models get validated
or reviewed for correctness or bias.
And then, you know,
is that team sort of separate
or is all kind of like
in-house within data science?
No, it's all in-house.
I would love to say
we have built this full
like MLOps ecosystem out
and we have, you know,
some unbiased ways of measuring,
scoring, doing all of that.
I would say we do a much better
job than we've ever done.
We do have a data governance team
that helps us at least
with the data pieces
and making sure, you know,
what people are using
and consuming as features
and things are much more controlled
than they've ever been.
But as we think about
like model scoring and the outputs,
like we do that individually.
We often work within our teams
to do the reviews.
And I think sometimes
that's good enough.
But I think there's a lot of times
where we could do better.
And, you know, that's something
that's top of mind for Target,
top of mind for where we're going
with the future of our science platforms,
where a lot of those things are,
you know, in our desired end state
is built right into the patterns
and processes that we're following
as scientists.
And so we're on a journey to do that.
I'd say our tooling,
for those who maybe don't know Target,
all of our internal tooling
is almost all in-house,
open source built.
And so a lot of what it takes
to stand that up is a combination
of just the right engineering partners,
the right scientists,
and, you know, honestly,
even the right leadership
to build that governance
and controls across.
And we are committed to doing that,
but it is a journey
and it's going to continue to evolve.
Yeah.
And you're not behind.
I mean, I think every business
is really giving deep thought right now
about how they go about that.
So thanks for sharing.
Yeah, of course.
Funday, I see you had a question
a bit earlier as well
on working with decision makers.
Want to jump in?
Yeah, thanks.
Great talk so far.
Yeah, I'm just thinking
this is something I get to encounter
every now and then.
You have people who are supposed
to be senior level
and make, you know,
all these huge decisions.
And they have this way
of sounding really smart
when they have all these nice plots
and charts and graphs
and stuff in front of them
that has been prepared
and all laid out.
And yeah, they sound smart.
But when you listen carefully enough,
you sense they don't quite
get what's going on,
you know, and it plays out in decision.
Sometimes you have to show up again
and explain, you know,
what this actually meant was,
you know.
So if you were to pick one area,
you'd say you could help improve,
like offer some kind of training for,
you know, and this is not trying
to make everyone a data scientist,
you know, say, let's say,
conceptual understanding
of maybe probability theory
or, you know, one thing,
if there was one area,
you'd say high level conceptual
that they could benefit from
to help them understand
this thing, these things better.
What would it be?
That's a really good question.
I'll start probably
even more simplistic.
Like, I think the biggest thing
I preach to most of
my business partners
and even team is,
do you understand the inputs
that are affecting your outputs?
And do you really understand
what went into those decisions
or those variables that led to,
you know, the other models
or algorithms or all of that?
And most of the time,
what I find is a lot of hypotheses
on what happened within those inputs.
Well, somebody else owned that
or somebody else knew that
or that was already decided
and I can't change it.
And in reality,
there's so much of just,
can you affect the inputs
instead of just changing
or overriding or,
you know, biasing in between
what you want to have happen?
That I think it starts with,
do you take the time
to understand those effects
of what happened upstream of you?
Which regardless of science,
I think is a really good behavior.
If I start with just what has happened
before I ended up
having to make this decision
or what I'm dealing with right now,
I can usually start with a point of,
I've used the word empathy a couple of times,
but I usually start
with a point of empathy to say,
what did they deal with?
What was constrained for them?
What were variables
that they weren't able to consider?
What was the data they didn't have?
And then I can work back
even to their inputs and say,
wow, if I actually change this other thing
or help them understand that other thing,
the effects all the way through this
can be changed as well.
And so that, I mean,
fundamentally I think
is just a foundational building block
for anybody in science
or operations or whatever
that I think is really important.
Yeah, just real quickly.
And the last thing is,
you know, if you could pick between,
let's say, understanding bias,
for example, you know,
or, you know, because very often
people don't get it when you say,
these are the limitations
or these are the things
you should consider.
They just go like, hey,
this is the answer.
And then you go for it.
You know, just one area,
just one area, you'd say.
I would just ask, you know, why?
Why is this a problem?
Like, you know, I think asking that
why and understanding it,
there's oftentimes where people
will come to us with problems like,
we need data science to do this.
And when you ask why
and then you ask them to define it,
sometimes it's not even
a data science problem, right?
Like you need a binary decision,
you know, and sometimes
like we can help you build that,
like we can do that.
But like that doesn't take
any data science model.
And so I think asking the why
and then digging into like,
what do you really want to accomplish?
Sometimes you can really simplify
the solution without even
having to do the work.
I see some love for
the Target GitHub in the chat.
And I know there's also
a Target Data Science blog, right?
Yeah, there is.
There's a Target Tech blog too
for a lot of our open source work.
OK, cool.
We will have to go find that too.
Lisa, I see you asked a question.
I want to jump in here next.
Yeah, I remember what I asked.
I think, oh, there we go.
Yeah, I'm just curious.
I'm also a former Target employee
that left back in 2006.
But just curious,
what tools you're using
for your work currently?
How has that changed over time?
Did the set of tools differ
from data science team
to data science team,
all that sort of stuff?
It does.
I alluded to us being
kind of almost all open source.
And so, you know,
we use all different languages.
It depends what we're building,
what stage it's in.
I'm a big, you know,
the tool has to fit the right problem
what you're working on.
And so we're not going to bias
that as much as possible.
I'd say tooling that I'm most excited
about we're investing in right now
is kind of is the MLOps like platform
for our scientists.
What is the right things
that we build there?
What are the right, you know,
feature store model manager,
all of those things.
So I think that's something
I'm really excited about.
But we will have to unify
that for all languages
and everything that we do
because we do a lot of different work.
You know, my team spends a lot of time
in both JVM based languages.
So Scala as well as Kotlin
are two big ones that we use
for like optimization and OR work.
But then we do a lot of work
especially in our forecasting space.
And then we do a ton of work
in Python, obviously.
And, you know, using all kinds
of different libraries
and things like that
that are accessible to the team.
So and then we have our
we have internal tooling
that's built now for like notebooks
and dev practices and all of that.
But we we make sure
everything ends up in Git.
It's just the way
that we kind of govern
and do manage all code
and versioning and all
of that stuff as well.
So it's a little bit of spread, right?
And it just depends
on even what we're doing
to deploy it.
Is it containerized, dockerized?
Like whatever it might be.
We have a lot of different practices
try to serve up the outputs as APIs.
So various tooling.
I see a few questions on open source.
So maybe I'll try and group them here.
But Ben asked, what was the process like
for establishing an open source program?
Honestly, that was before me.
I don't know.
I think, you know, there's been
some review and scrutiny.
Anybody else who was around
maybe around those times might know more.
But I don't know how we eventually
started focusing more on open source.
I know at one point we looked across
a lot of our L&M costs
and we were probably like, wow,
we have several BI tools.
We have several different modeling tools.
We have, you know,
different database structures.
And, you know, what are
these different things
that we can bring together
to minimize that?
So I'm guessing some of that
was part of that,
but I don't have all of that.
Thank you.
Tim, I see you had a question
around the packages.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, just on the open source side,
speaking of someone who's
brought open source
into a few organizations
that were initially adverse to it.
How are you controlling access
to open source libraries
that aren't developed in-house
so that you can satisfy
your risk management team
and, you know, make sure
you're not accidentally
introducing issues
with breaking changes?
Yeah, we do have platform teams
that do host a lot of these libraries.
Honestly, some of it's more of a pain
for our scientists
than I'd say it is for
the governance side.
We're pretty slow to sometimes
make the changes and upgrade
some of the libraries and packages
and versions and things.
But I'd say, you know,
we do try to govern those.
We try to have a, you know, V plus one
so that we're managing, you know,
not only the existing version
of the library, but the next one
and maintaining the one behind it as well.
So that we do have the right
change management in there.
But the platform team
does centralize a lot of that.
And so the platforms
that we work off of
are hosting those
and that those libraries
do go through some governance
as they're introduced
to the platforms themselves.
So it abstracts a little bit away
from the individual scientists
going to do all of that themselves.
I see a lot of other
questions in the chat.
Let me try and pull up here.
OK, Frank asked
a question a bit earlier
and I might need you to expand
on what supply chain DCs mean.
I'm going to jump in, Frank.
Hi, so I was referring
to distribution centers.
That was from a kind of an ops
research view.
I know it kind of borders
the data science space,
but I'm just curious
if what kind of modeling techniques
you're using,
whether it's mixed integer
programming or
different things like that
to solve some of these
supply chain problems.
Mainly kind of around
making sure that your production
or not production, but
outbound operations
from a supply chain center
can adequately supply
your target stores.
Yeah, we do.
We have several
different optimizations
that we run all across
from mixed integer programs
to linear programs
to just various
optimization techniques.
We try to synchronize
those as much as possible
and even simulating the variables
and what those optimizations
are up and downstream.
So as we think about,
well, just an example,
we have a state of inventory.
And as we think about that state
moving throughout,
the optimization
is making those decisions
and we can use those
different optimization engines
to simulate variables
up and downstream.
And so we feed
stochastic inputs into those
and then derive
different outcomes from that,
which give us scenarios.
And then those scenarios
bias what gets input again.
And so we use that
from purchasing to positioning
to what gets placed in a store
to what gets replenished.
And those variables
are all then built across
and we maintain that holistically.
And so it's a, you know,
if you were to build it overall, right?
Like you could think about it
being one big mixed integer program
all the way through
the reality of that
as we build the components
in the building blocks
and then try to share states
as we maximize
or minimize different functions.
Very cool.
Thank you.
That was pretty generic
without getting into
and exposing so much of our detail,
but I got close.
Thank you, Jacob.
I see you had a question
about working with big data.
Want to jump in?
Yeah, I was basically just wondering
for your R models
that you put in production,
if you're dealing with
millions of rows or more,
what libraries do you use
to try to speed up the computations?
Are you mainly using things like
data table for preprocessing
and avoiding the tidy burst altogether?
I don't necessarily know.
Alfredo, you can jump on
and try to share more.
You know, we're doing a lot.
Yes, more than millions of rows.
Yes, different ways of speeding that up.
We use Spark heavily
for a lot of different things.
We'll wrap things, right?
So it just depends.
Yeah, I did post something
in the chat on that,
but Spark is for,
it depends on the number of rows,
but for the billions of rows,
Spark is probably best practices.
If you're looking at 100 rows,
you could use, you know,
a future deployer.
And then, like I posted,
Mirai is a new package out of Japan
that is very promising for speeding.
What's that called again?
Mirai.
Yeah, when Hallie and team
was here last week,
we went to a fireside chat
and he mentioned it to me
because I brought this up to him.
And it's pretty new.
It's in the chat.
It's Mirai.
It's Japanese.
I'm probably not speaking it well.
Yeah.
M-I-R-A-I.
Thanks, Alfredo.
I'll say that for anybody
who's listening to the recording.
Yeah, thank you, Alfredo,
for joining from your vacation,
it looks like.
This is our current Minnesota winter,
by the way.
Yeah.
Okay, let's see.
Greg, I thought you had a question
about coming from a highly
regulated industry.
You want to jump in?
Yeah, absolutely.
I was just interested.
I love to see when companies
have like public GitHub repos
and you're actually sharing,
you know, some of the research
that you had from coming from finance,
highly regulated.
I feel like our legal and compliance
folks would freak out about
anything even close to that.
Even internal repos have been
a topic of conversation,
right behind the firewall.
So how do you kind of balance
what you share publicly
versus what you keep internally
to keep your competitive advantage?
I mean, it's not just
the regulated industries.
Like we have,
even before I could do this talk,
Rachel had to delay me a couple of weeks
because like our comms partners
have to weigh in,
our risk and compliance people
have to weigh in.
There's reviews on talking points.
Like there's just,
there is oversight to all of that.
I'd say we,
especially with like tech blogs
and the open source stuff
that we contribute,
like we try to,
you know, we try to minimize, right?
Like the IP exposure
and all of that stuff.
Our teams are always patenting work,
which then, right?
Legal is always involved with.
So like, I don't know.
I think across our team right now,
we have like 40 pending patents.
So like, even like,
you just have to manage
all of that stuff.
And it just, it takes time.
But we're constantly
trying to balance that too.
Gotcha. Okay.
It makes me feel a little better.
We're not the only one, at least.
No, and it's not easy, right?
But I always talk about like,
what can we do to abstract
certain parts of the way?
So sometimes like even with code
is like as much as we can,
you know, just like software
engineering principles, right?
Like as much as we can
decouple components,
then it makes it easier
for us to abstract away
some of the IP,
but still share and contribute
open source where we,
where it's possible.
Just an example.
Awesome. Thank you.
Yeah.
I know we were just talking about
all the books behind you
when you first joined,
but I see Jared had asked,
I see a bunch of books behind you.
Is there one or several
that you recommend we read?
My favorite leadership book
is Team of Rivals.
It's about Abraham Lincoln.
It's pretty in depth.
It's a deep read,
but it is fantastic
for anybody in leadership.
It highlights how he built
a team of diverse perspectives,
challenging disagreements,
even fights and arguments.
And I just think it was,
it's an amazing read.
And I think you just learn a lot
from his approach and understanding
and it's good for anybody.
So.
Awesome. That's the first time
I've heard that one.
Thank you.
The other one I like for
business leadership
is Radical Collaboration.
If you're into that,
it talks a lot about how to,
to move diverse teams forward,
even through, you know,
the mucky messiness
of different personalities
and other things to you.
Thank you.
Runhua, I see you asked a question
around social media data.
Want to jump in?
Oh, yeah.
And now I think the social media data
is complicated,
but it's very valuable.
And also now we have a generated AI
or, you know, operating AI
able to plug in
and be able to, you know,
help my information
or should your team use that
or how to deal with
ethical issues if we do that.
Yeah, my team doesn't necessarily
work in kind of the
social data channels.
My peers and other teams,
obviously, on like the marketing side,
our digital side,
use a lot of that,
especially like Target
has a Pinterest account.
We have our own Twitter
and all of that stuff.
And so we try to use that data,
especially as it informs
different decisions
and things we might do
through the site
or somebody's account,
whatever recommendations.
I would say I don't know
what that's going to look like
with Gen AI.
I'm not sure how
all these large language models
and what that governance
and perspective will be
as we start to think about
the intersection there.
I think we're going to have to.
I think especially as,
you know, fine tuning
and other things become
more and more inevitable
in the broader Gen AI space.
I think that stuff becomes
really influential.
And I think we'll have to figure out
what that looks like.
But I don't have that answer today.
And I think we're just on the cusp
of learning through that at Target.
Yeah.
Bill, I see you had a question.
Do you want to jump in to ask it
or do you want me to?
Yeah.
And it was around,
do you have a line on
whether what you are doing
generally and broadly speaking
is similar to others in the space?
So like Walmart or Costco
or other retail organizations?
Sorry, Rachel,
can you rephrase that?
Sorry, the question was just around,
do you have a line on
whether what you are doing
generally and broadly
speaking is similar to others
such as Walmart, for example?
Yeah, there's definitely ways
where we're leading
and definitely areas
where we're following
in different aspects
of the work we do.
We're constantly trying
to benchmark competitors
and understand
different approaches to it.
We do bring in consultants
from time to time
just to even give us
an external perspective
on where we can evolve
and maybe look at things differently
to remain competitive.
So yeah, we do have a beat
on some of that.
I think one thing you see
in some of these areas
of data science,
especially data science and retails,
we often share talent
across different organizations.
So there's people who my team
has hired who are ex-Amazon
or ex-Walmart or whatever else.
And so we tend to leverage
and build around
those experiences as well.
So yeah, we definitely have
a good beat on where we're leading,
where we have opportunities,
where we're clearly trailing
as well.
Thank you.
I always like to make sure
I get to fit this question in,
so I'll ask it now.
But is there a piece of career advice
that comes to mind for you,
whether it's something you've given
or you've received that advice
that you'd like to share with us here?
I'd say the biggest piece
of career advice,
you know, I lean into
empathy and humility.
And so I'd say always
assume you're not
the smartest in the room.
Ask a lot of questions
and then be willing to adjust.
I think as a leader,
I have found more and more often
I'm surrounded by diverse perspectives
and understanding.
And what I might start the team down
or shift the team around
is usually not where
we're going to end up.
And so I think it's great
when you can step back,
let other people lead you,
and then you can evolve
your perspective as a leader as well.
Thank you.
As we get to the end here,
I know there maybe are
some questions that I missed.
So I just want to say,
feel free to raise your hand on Zoom,
just so I know that I
may have missed your question.
But I do see there was a question
in the chat a bit earlier
that was roughly what proportion,
I think Rick asked this,
roughly what proportion
of the data science team's work
is forward looking,
prediction versus
backward looking analysis?
And with respect to predictions,
to what degree does your team
use simulation or scenario analysis?
For simulation scenarios,
well, in data sciences,
I would just say
most of our work
is forward looking decisions.
In data sciences at Target,
we've separated out
like our measurements, metrics,
our traditional data analytics,
statistics functions.
Those are all moved
into business functions.
So like your traditional BI
and all of that's happening
outside of data science.
But our data sciences team
is all about the decision models
and augmented decisioning.
And then just the question around
how much do we use simulation?
I alluded to us being on a journey
of kind of creating a digital twin.
We eventually would love
to have simulation across
everything from vendors
and purchasing all the way
through our stores
and even through what
we deliver to our guests.
And so we're on our journey
to have all of that build.
So we use simulation at scale every day
in almost all of our work that we do.
Thank you.
I see your hands raised
and I'm apologies
for not being able to pronounce
your name, but want to jump in.
I think it's Azway is your name here.
Nope.
Am I frozen or are they frozen?
It looks like you are
definitely not frozen.
Okay, I'm definitely not frozen.
I will ask the question then.
The question they were going to ask
I see in the chat was,
you discussed the challenge
of effectively communicating
to stakeholders why a particular
data project is the solution
to a business problem
without overwhelming them.
Can you share strategies
for ensuring clear communication
that resonates with stakeholders?
Yeah, I love to start.
Maybe this is because I've spent
time in supply chain,
but I really think fundamentally
starting with the steps
of problem definition
and breakdown allows you
to then help build a bridge
of like what data actually
helps you solve that problem.
It removes the assumptions
on the data will tell the future
or the data will help us
change this or that.
And I think when you just start
to break down, we talked
a little bit about the why,
but when you start to break down,
you're trying to get to this point.
You want to understand this.
And then you look at,
maybe it's the defects that caused it,
or maybe it's the changes
in upstream decisions
that impacted it,
or maybe it's external factors,
guest experiences, demand shifts,
whatever it might be.
I think when you start to break down
the problems in ways
that they can tangibly see and fit,
then you can also meet them in that,
which allows you to communicate
how the data fits the problem as well.
How, and just leaning
into the communication topic a bit more,
how do you teach communication
to somebody new on your team?
Do you have any strategies for that?
Lots of practice, right?
I talk about the immersion experience
for my leaders, but that,
you know, when I talk about leaders,
we have principals who are,
you know, mostly PhDs,
deep technical experts.
I also consider them leaders.
They don't have any DRs,
but they're leading the technical vision,
architecture frameworks,
you know, practices that we do.
And then our leaders, our directors,
and I think equally the way
they communicate and engage
is super important.
And so I think the best thing
is practice and exposure
and coming alongside
as we think about what we're doing
and who we're sharing with.
So know your audience
and then practice with them.
So maybe one last question
before we all have to drop,
unfortunately, is just thinking
about like all the ideas
that your team comes up with
or just new ways of looking at data.
How do you go about sharing ideas
or deciding what to work on next?
Yeah, there's a couple of things.
So I talked about us being on a journey
to experiment and moving faster.
We have something at Target
called our 50 days of learning.
And so we make sure our teams
have the space.
If you think about 50 days in a year,
it's 20% of your time.
We try to make sure the team
has that space to explore new ideas
and also look at, you know,
sharing ideas across the organization
and sponsoring those things.
So, you know, if you're in,
you know, my team on the OR side,
but you want to work on
maybe more of a deep learning project
or something like that,
we'll use that 50 days of learning
to have somebody go get experience
in recommendation systems
or in search or some other things like that.
And I think that's one unique way
we do it.
But then also I talked
about the product model.
I think the product model
and having that business
partnership and expertise
allows you to also index on the value
that your team is working against.
And so the more value you unlock,
the more investment you get,
the more creative and space
you get to go work on those unique,
exciting problems and research as well.
And so I think when you blend
that empathy and connection
to the value they want to unlock,
as well as your curiosity
and connection to the team,
you end up being able
to do more independently too.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much, Brad,
for taking the time to join us today
and sharing your experience.
Thank you all for so many
great questions too.
I'm sorry if there were any questions
that we didn't get to,
but there were so many good ones in the chat.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.